# FESbike
As a result of the Functional electrical stimulation (or FES) bike being relatively new technology and most of the research and further improvement on the bike focuses on the electrical side. A lot of the design of the physical side of the bike has not evolved beyond the initial style of the bike. Due to this the pedals are heavy and large resulting in sores and other injuries to the cyclist; they also offer no information about how the cyclist is pedalling. 

We decided to create a pedal that would be more comfortable for the cyclist but also that would allow the cyclist to receive data about his cycling to track and improve. All of these requirements still had to be within regulations of the Cybathlon rule book, as this is the main competition that the bike is used for. We worked in collaboration with Johnny Beer Timms and the Berkel Bike company, using his inputs on the pedal for example what data he would like to receive, what issues he has with the physical design of it and how he would like the aesthetics of the product to look. After back and forth conversations and visiting Johnny Beer Timms a final design was decided upon and then the process of making began. Due to facilities available to us we had to change a carbon fibre back plate into an aluminium back plate. The testing involved displacement testing of the pedals in the lab and an evaluation of the function of the pedals by a test subject.

The final product was created by a combination of a Snowboard binding and cycle pedal to create an adjustable base and an aluminium back plate with an ITB strap for support. The straps allow the cyclists feet to be secured into the pedal, allowing more accurate data readings to be taken and then the final data to be displayed and stored on a separate monitor. 

This code takes data received wirelessly from the pair of pedals via bluetooth, displays power measurements in real time on a GUI, and records the data in excel spreadsheets for later analysis by the cyclist.
